Welcome back.
You radiant go to people and use radiant yet quite like it in this video.
We're going to continue with our task of navigating the gods.
We have made the gods move around.
We're going to do that by using get simple path which is a function within navigation 2D.
What this is going to do is give us a variable called Path.
In fact it's gonna be an array.
Let's take a really quick whistle stop tour how we're going to use that and they get into engine and
see what the practicalities are.
So using navigation paths we're going to make a very local path which is just gonna be an empty array.
And then when we tell it get simple path we'll say we are here we want to go there.
Draw a series of lines from one to the other.
That's not going to draw them.
It's just going to fill the path with vector 2s.
So we'll have an array of vector 2s and as you can see the first one which will be entry 0 which is
this one right here.
That's at 0 0 hours in the world.
The next one which will be path 1 is 100 minus 80.
I'm highlighting this because remember that in an array we always count from zero the first entry is
entry zero.
It's really an offset.
This is important because otherwise we're gonna get some very bad off by 1 errors.
Okay.
Once we've done that what we can do is tell gotto move the character to path zero and then when you're
at it or close enough to it we can remove entry zero from our path and say Okay now move to the next
entry 0 and this will happen until there is only one left when there's one left which could generate
a new path.
What the player will see is the Guard's going to move to a waypoint that immediately moves the next
waypoint move the next point when they get to the destination they're going to generate a new path we're
gonna put a timer in so that the guard pauses that for a few seconds but that's what it's gonna look
like.
Okay so that's not a theory let's get into the game.
Here we are in gotto open character's gonna open and pieces gonna open the gods scene he our God and
just check with the right script we do that and Chasen's last time and when we hear let's add a torch
not a torch while we hear it's a timer we could press the plus button we control a and just type in
a timer simple time a. ode when we connect it with a signal on time out connect to the route.
God if that's not the route that's the god right now sort of do a thing we're gonna put in there and
we're now good to go.
First thing I want to do is if I'm gonna be running get simple path from here and that's part of navigation
to me I need a way of telling it where navigation Tootie is.
So want to put that as a variable right at the top.
Now there are a few different ways you can do this if I go to level one to change a 2D view to make
it very clear where I am.
Here are the gods right.
Each God is a child of this node called gods which is a child of either one.
It could in theory say get parent get parent get node but what happens if we start shuffling this round.
Right.
All we've done is with tighter selves down to having to use this architecture.
Let's put some flexibility into this.
Let's make this as malleable as we can and trying to find other words flexible to do that.
What I'm to do is say get the root which remember is the invisible node above the top one so it's above
level one get the root.
And now from root.
Find a node called navigation 2D so let's look at how we can do that into the script.
Now let's go into distraction free mode and have a variable loops maybe finally type into the field
have a variable and I'm gonna call it navigation.
I don't have it with a small N because if I have it with a big N it's going to change color.
Why.
Because this isn't a node it's a class navigation is the 3D version of navigation 2D that's gonna get
confusing so let's just do that.
And now I need to set.
So let's set this as get loops get tree go.
And that's just gonna sell it.
Okay we're now playing with the scenery so get the same tree and now get root.
And from here we can find node and we've done this before right.
So the first image is the string.
This is the navigation 2D.
Remember checking capitalization.
Is it recursive.
Yes please check all children and grandchildren.
Is it owned by this node.
No it is not.
Great navigation is now set.
However if I run this and I'll show you this.
We're gonna get an error.
You're trying to get root of a null instance.
Why this should be working right.
Well the reason for this is that the scene hasn't finished loading it's not ready.
So we're trying to find a node that may or may not be there yet to solve this.
We're going to add a new keyword before variable and add on ready on ready means go find this when you
run the ready function when everything in the scene is finished and you start.
Now go find this and now this will run just fine won't do anything but it'll run boom.
Okay so I've done that we've probably got the destinations don't we.
So let's do another on ready because I don't want it beforehand variable.
Let's call this available v level destinations.
And this is going to be navigation dot.
Now I'm going to do dot because I can't really do this yet right.
That's gonna get confusing so dot get node and what is that called destinations with a capital D.
I think it was.
Yes that's exactly what it does.
So dest loops.
Destinations.
There it is.
Okay we're gonna need a few more variables we can add them in.
What if and now we're gonna be moving we'll be using moving slide so let's set up a motion variable
motion.
We could tell it it's a vector too but there's no real need to do that with me that blank we're gonna
need a variable of possible destinations.
So what this is going to do is set this once the scene is finished loading it's gonna go to available
destinations and get all of the children.
That's what that's going to be.
You know what that should be about a name shouldn't let's call it destinations.
Great variable for the path.
Again I could set this as an empty array.
No need to.
To can handle that us.
So we put it like this and do anything else.
I mean we do but we'll come to that when we get to it.
I want to give too many spoilers.
OK.
Function ready.
Let's actually do some scripting.
First thing we do is we'll set randomize why I want to pick random destinations.
I want them different every time we play the game.
So I need randomize.
Otherwise think of it as a deck of cards.
The deck will be in the same order every time we play so let's shuffle them.
We've shuffled out random cards.
Now let's set possible destinations and possible destination equals.
And this is going to be destinations.
Dot get children.
So she's going to have all of the children.
Now we have that as an array.
We could print that if we wanted to it can print every possible position today.
There is advantage in doing this way.
This will now work for every level.
Right.
We don't have to have them manually put him we'd only Jason files what is going to do at the beginning
each level it's going to go to the destination file and just pull all of these position 2D and we can
move them around between games we can have as many levels we like we can shuffle them do whatever we
want.
It doesn't matter it'll just pick them back into the scene and the script.
Okay.
Next we need to do is make a path make path as a branding function that I'm going to make right now
which is new function McBath.
Boo boo boo boo boo doesn't take any arguments and it's good to go.
I only make a path.
The first thing I need to do is figure out what our destination is gonna be.
Let's make a new variable called new destination.
Every time we run this we want a new destination.
And this is gonna be a random choice from the possible destinations so we can write that.
Possible destinations.
And I want a specific one.
So let's get a random integer so get one of.
So pick a random entry from here.
Well I don't want any random number has to be within range.
So it's modulate that by possible destinations size and we'll be very careful of an off by one error
the size of the array is going to be different from the positions of the array.
If there is only one entry in the array the size is one but that entry is in position zero.
So let's subtract one now.
Let's set path somebody's path equals navigation dot get simple path.
You'll notice it's not auto completing.
Why isn't it auto completing because at the moment it doesn't know what kind of note this is.
Right.
Once the game runs and the script is ready it'll go find out what this is.
At the moment it has no idea.
So I can't look up the health I'm holding control clicking nothing's happening.
Couple of ways we do this we could go into search and type it in or I could go back into the crime scene
and in my view right click on navigation to and to open documentation.
Let's take a look at get a simple path get simple path.
Returns the path between two given points.
Points are in local coordinate space if optimize is true the default path is smooth by moving past seconds
when possible.
OK so let's see how comfortable you are with this right now.
Don't worry if this is a little bit beyond you.
This is kind of a challenging one for some of you to be trivial for some it'll be very difficult.
This is a chance for you to figure out where you are and you know demons go back and look at these videos
you have questions to ask where the symbol to use the documentation to put the right arguments and get
simple path.
So path equals get symbol path.
Don't worry about the third argument yet it's not important but just make it so that we're going to
create a path from where we are to where we're going.
Post the video give it a shot when you come back I show you my solution
and walk back.
OK so let's get back to the script path it goes navigation get simple path must start with a position
where I am right.
That's my position.
If I'm not sure what that's called.
I could just click on it and go to transform and that's my position right mouse over it.
Position.
Awesome.
Now my second argument is where we're going to do this.
I'm going to pick new destinations.
So new destination dot position.
And that should be fine to test of it's fine print path.
And if this has worked we should get a nice little ride on here.
It's clear that Megan isn't easy and embrace play boom.
Look at that.
Each God has picked a destination and got to random one.
And if I rerun it I should get completely different numbers.
Awesome.
So now we have a way of picking a random destination and generating a path to it.
Next thing we have to do is move.
Now let's run this on.
Physics process so function physics process Delta.
Every single frame of physics process we're going to navigate.
So we run a function called navigate which we haven't written yet.
I'm going to put a placeholder in there navigates and pass just so it doesn't throw up this area and
in fact that's all it needs to do.
So I don't need a book pass in here at all do I navigate is going to handle am I at my destination or
should I keep moving.
Well let's figure out how close we are to the destination.
I don't want you to have to get to exactly the right pixel.
Something might be in the way.
There might be a bad piece of placement.
Let's have a a minimum amount that you have to get to a threshold so can you variable.
Let's put this as an export variable.
Export variable and let's call this finding good names is tricky.
And it's one of the hardest things in programming.
What's a good name for this.
Minimum distance to destination is really long distance to destination.
No it's too long.
I want to keep this a two words if I can.
Destination threshold.
So the reason I'm hesitating is I had a previous one and it was a terrible name.
Like a really terrible name.
I don't mean that he could spell threshold.
Let's call it minimum arrival distance.
It's bad but at least I can see what it is.
I must set this to 5 pixels so if you're within five pixels we get to go.
We also did mention before that we want the guards to go half the speed so let's do that.
Export export.
No export variable walk speed.
He calls zero point five.
So getting a half the speed right now this won't do anything but it will soon.
Okay back to navigate Let's actually make this work so we have minimum arrival distance and a need to
get there.
Well let's make a variable called distance to destination.
This is how many pixels are we from our destination.
So let's pick position Dot.
Distance to and what's the distance to what.
It's where we're going which is path entry 0
okay now.
Whoops.
That's nice path path.
And we want entry 0 in path.
Okay so we're just gonna calculate the distance from where we are to where we're going.
Now let's check it if if we're far enough away so if distance to destination is greater than what I
call this minimum arrival terrible time minimum arrival this distance.
So how far we are if that's greater than currently 5 pixels which we can change then do a thing.
Let's have a function called move let's put that function in so function move and for now you can just
pass.
Okay.
So if we're far enough away keep moving if we're not we want to update the path or me another function
called update path.
You know what let's start with that one.
So get out here.
I'm trying to write them in the order they appear on the screen.
Function Update path don't need that comment.
Time to fast my fingers sometimes.
Do you do that.
I do that.
What was I doing.
Updating the path if the path Dot.
Sighs So how many entries are in this array is one.
This is important I don't want to wait until this is 0.
That's going to cause all kinds of problems if the path is zero.
That means we don't have a destination that means the game will crash.
So there's only one entry left and the timer has stopped and is stopped.
Okay there's only one entry and the timer hasn't yet started.
We want to do something and what we want to do we want to start the timer.
Why are we here.
Let's take a quick look at the timer.
It's kind of set for one second and three seconds sounds good.
So wait for three seconds okay.
So if there's only one entry and the timer isn't yet running stop the timer.
If on the other hand we still have entries in the path.
That means we haven't reached our destination yet so we're going to do is we're going to remove Position
ZERO.
Now I could do path dot remove Zero that will not find easy way of doing this.
We just gonna go pop front now just means remove the very first thing.
There's also a pop back.
Remove the very last thing upfront is great.
Let's see how it go.
We've got almost everything we don't have move yet and we haven't filled in the timeless feel at time
right now.
This is just make a path right.
If we get to this stage the timer started great.
If it's finished.
Make a new path.
And now we just need move.
And that should be everything before we test it.
See if I've messed everything up.
Hopefully I haven't one lie.
This is not my first attempt to recording this video.
It's a very hot day and my brain is not working very well.
OK.
When we move I kind of want wanna look at where we're going so let's do that.
Let's look at.
And what are we looking to do with a variable called destination.
We don't do we.
Okay so let's just go look at Path zero.
We're gonna keep looking.
And we should be running this every frame that we're actually moving.
We look at where we're going to the garbage can look at whatever the next waypoint is and the destination
that's gonna look reasonably realistic.
Now let's set motion.
Motion equals.
Now we figured this out before we did in line of sight.
Very similar idea.
Right.
I want to calculate where I'm going minus my position.
So path zero minus position however I need to normalize this.
What that means is it's got me a number between 0 and 1 because otherwise we'll move diagonally gonna
move at a different speed so as to dot normalized
and now I want to make sure that we're going at the right speed.
So multiply that by Max speed.
Where's that coming from.
That's coming from the template script right Max speed is right here and I want to multiply that by
walk speed and just make it nice and clear and I'll put this in brackets.
We probably don't need to to be honest but I'm do anyway.
Okay.
This is pretty good.
One more thing we do actually move it so move and slide because we are moving with a of massive body
and we are moved by motion and that should be everything.
Let's see if this works pressing play and it doesn't.
Okay.
Why.
Because pop front is not a thing in a pool vector to a right.
Okay what's happening here is path here is not an action array it's a vector to array which for some
reason isn't accepting pop front.
Not problem.
Remove entry 0 and that's fine meal time.
Boom.
Oh God.
Now he has moved.
But look they're both stuck.
That's bad.
Couple of ways we can fix that.
First thing to do is when we're getting a simple path which is down here on make path we can use our
third entry
which is false.
I believe I just checked the navigation
the U.S. defaults is true should get better so let's take a look and see.
Guards are eye moving.
Moving is good.
I like moving and it crashes.
Okay.
Why is it crashing on the somehow.
Somehow we are getting to have no entries in the path that tells me we're removing them too early.
So we're going to do is when the scroll down here and I think the problem is here.
If the path size is 1 and the timer is stopped do that otherwise remove the path.
But if we do this
now what it's saying if this is one check has the time stopped.
If not wait and if it isn't go then let's take a look at that.
Let's play
and hopefully now the gods will get to their destination and stop.
However they're bumping into things and what's gonna happen occasionally they're gonna get stuck especially
they touch each other let's fix that next let's go into two to do to do probably move spirit and move
just before move and slide.
So while you're moving check have you bumped into something.
F is on.
Now remember we used is on your own floor is on ceiling but we haven't defined it up.
Doesn't matter is on wall if you want touching an obstacle make a new path.
Let's see how we're going press play.
God's moving.
God's moving not an each other what happens they touch me boop.
New Path.
Perfect.
Let's check.
They can actually stop Why is there a camera in the middle of floor.
I shouldn't be there.
Got stopped for three seconds and should now be moving.
We have to be getting back stealth game Hi folks Fijian here.
You might have a bug you might have a situation where the guards will start moving gets their first
destination then start moving again.
And after three seconds no matter what is happening they're going to immediately picking your destination.
If that's going on.
Go to your guard.
Go to your timer and make sure you have one shot selected.
If you don't it's going to trigger every three seconds.
We don't want to do that we'll just stop.
So make sure that selected and now back to your regular schedule time zone I want to move my camera
really quick because it's annoying me.
Level 1 that you just move you over there nice dramatic awesome check that works from a gameplay point
of view.
Yeah that's pretty tense.
Also we now have guards that can go from destination to destination and check if you're in sight.
Kind of a complicated couple of videos but we've done some great stuff.
So in this video we've looked at how to use get simple path how to move the next points in the path
and how to make path finding what law to take in here.
Don't be afraid to have a bunch of questions but excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.